# CLERK: a multicultural LLM for inclusive societies

Building technologies that exhibit groundbreaking language abilities raises crucial questions about whom they should target. Each country is a multilingual setting where different varieties of languages and a number of minority languages are spoken. This is particularly true for Italy, where the role of dialects and relatively recent immigration produced a multi-linguistic society. Large Language Models (LLMs) may be useful in such a multilingual context, since they could foster communication among citizens and between citizens and Public Administration (PA). Unfortunately, these technologies are not designed to be linguistically inclusive: their quality is measured by companies over a standardized language, and little effort is made to account for cultural differences when pre-trained models are created.
The aim of our project is to release CLERK, a multilingual and multicultural LLM. The technology is developed for the Italian context, but the methodology behind its development can be implemented in any EU country.  Developing a multicultural LLM  supports two societal changes:
- Promote inclusion. CLERK is able to generate and understand textual and multimodal messages for a wide number of Italian varieties (eg, dialects, Italian as second language, etc.) and for foreign languages that are most spoken in Italy
- Simplify bureaucracy. CLERK is able to recognize communicative contexts and interact with citizens. CLERK is expected to improve the relationship between citizens and the Public Administration, by simplifying bureaucratic processes and fostering access to public services. 

